site/user/download.md, before:

How to download Skia
====================

Install depot_tools and Git
---------------------------

Follow the instructions on [Installing Chromium's
depot_tools](http://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools)
to download depot_tools (which includes gclient, git-cl, and Ninja).

<!--?prettify lang=sh?-->

    git clone 'https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git'
    export PATH="${PWD}/depot_tools:${PATH}"

depot_tools will also install Git on your system, if it wasn't installed
already.

Clone the Skia repository
-------------------------

<!--?prettify lang=sh?-->

    git clone https://skia.googlesource.com/skia.git
    cd skia
    python tools/git-sync-deps

Getting started with Skia
-------------------------

You probably now want to [build](./build) Skia.

Changing and contributing to Skia
---------------------------------

At this point, you have everything you need to build and use Skia!  If
you want to make changes, and possibly contribute them back to the Skia
project, read [How To Submit a Patch](../dev/contrib/submit).

Commit message:

Changes to site documentation
Mostly just formatting fixes with a few grammatical changes.

Two real notable changes:
  - Removed references to SkGLCanvas from Tips & FAQ and replaced with
    references to `SkDevice` and `SkSurface`.
  - Deleted deprecated "Quick Start Guides" folder

Docs-Preview: https://skia.org/?cl=92361
Bug: skia:
Change-Id: Ief790b1c2bae8fe0e39aa8d66c79f80560d18c9e
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/92361
Reviewed-by: Heather Miller <hcm@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>

site/user/download.md, after:

How to download Skia
====================

Install `depot_tools` and Git
---------------------------

Follow the instructions on [Installing Chromium's
depot_tools](http://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools)
to download `depot_tools` (which includes gclient, git-cl, and Ninja). 
Below is a summary of the necessary steps.

<!--?prettify lang=sh?-->

    git clone 'https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git'
    export PATH="${PWD}/depot_tools:${PATH}"

`depot_tools` will also install Git on your system, if it wasn't installed
already.

Clone the Skia repository
-------------------------

Skia can either be cloned using `git` or the `fetch` tool that is
installed with `depot_tools`.

<!--?prettify lang=sh?-->

    git clone https://skia.googlesource.com/skia.git
    # or
    # fetch skia
    cd skia
    python tools/git-sync-deps

Getting started with Skia
-------------------------

You will probably now want to [build](./build) Skia.

Changing and contributing to Skia
---------------------------------

At this point, you have everything you need to build and use Skia!  If
you want to make changes, and possibly contribute them back to the Skia
project, read [How To Submit a Patch](../dev/contrib/submit).
