modules/canvaskit/npm_build/README.md, before:

A WASM version of Skia's Canvas API.

See https://skia.org/user/modules/canvaskit for more background information.

# Getting Started

## Browser
To use the library, run `npm install canvaskit-wasm` and then simply include it:

    <script src="/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js"></script>
    CanvasKitInit({
        locateFile: (file) => '/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/'+file,
    }).then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

As with all npm packages, there's a freely available CDN via unpkg.com:

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/canvaskit-wasm@0.18.1/bin/canvaskit.js"></script>
    CanvasKitInit({
         locateFile: (file) => 'https://unpkg.com/canvaskit-wasm@0.18.1/bin/'+file,
    }).then(...)

## Node
To use CanvasKit in Node, it's similar to the browser:

    const CanvasKitInit = require('/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js');
    CanvasKitInit({
        locateFile: (file) => __dirname + '/bin/'+file,
    }).then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

With node, you also need to supply the `--expose-wasm` flag.

## WebPack

WebPack's support for WASM is still somewhat experimental, but CanvasKit can be
used with a few configuration changes.

In the JS code, use require():

    const CanvasKitInit = require('canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js')
    CanvasKitInit().then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

Since WebPack does not expose the entire `/node_modules/` directory, but instead
packages only the needed pieces, we have to copy canvaskit.wasm into the build directory.
One such solution is to use [CopyWebpackPlugin](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/copy-webpack-plugin).
For example, add the following plugin:

    config.plugins.push(
        new CopyWebpackPlugin([
            { from: 'node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.wasm' }
        ])
    );

If webpack gives an error similar to:

    ERROR in ./node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js
    Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'fs' in '...'

Then, add the following configuration change to the node section of the config:

    config.node = {
        fs: 'empty'
    };


# Using the CanvasKit API

See `example.html` and `node.example.js` for demos of how to use the core API.

See `extra.html` for some optional add-ins like an animation player (Skottie)
and a particles system.

See `types/index.d.ts` for a typescript definition file that contains all the
APIs and some documentation about them.

## Drop-in Canvas2D replacement
For environments where an HTML canvas is not available (e.g. Node, headless servers),
CanvasKit has an optional API (included by default) that mirrors the HTML canvas.

    let skcanvas = CanvasKit.MakeCanvas(600, 600);

    let ctx = skcanvas.getContext('2d');
    let rgradient = ctx.createRadialGradient(200, 300, 10, 100, 100, 300);

    // Add three color stops
    rgradient.addColorStop(0, 'red');
    rgradient.addColorStop(0.7, 'white');
    rgradient.addColorStop(1, 'blue');

    ctx.fillStyle = rgradient;
    ctx.globalAlpha = 0.7;
    ctx.fillRect(0, 0, 600, 600);

    let imgData = skcanvas.toDataURL();
    // imgData is now a base64 encoded image.

See more examples in `example.html` and `node.example.js`.


# Filing bugs

Please file bugs at [skbug.com](skbug.com).
It may be convenient to use [our online fiddle](jsfiddle.skia.org/canvaskit) to demonstrate any issues encountered.

See CONTRIBUTING.md for more information on sending pull requests.

# Types and Documentation

There are Typescript types and associated API docs in types/.

Commit message:

[canvaskit] Add rough measureText to Canvas2D emulation layer
I wanted to use SkParagraph myself, but the API is a little
awkward right now in that I cannot just pass in a SkFont object
(which I have) - I would have to make a FontCollection, which
we lack the ability to do so.

Change-Id: I1488fb9c1a42af020a245a792b8e266c809b599a
Bug: skia:12705
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/skia/+/481238
Reviewed-by: Nathaniel Nifong <nifong@google.com>

modules/canvaskit/npm_build/README.md, after:

A WASM version of Skia's Canvas API.

See https://skia.org/user/modules/canvaskit for more background information.

# Getting Started

## Browser
To use the library, run `npm install canvaskit-wasm` and then simply include it:

    <script src="/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js"></script>
    CanvasKitInit({
        locateFile: (file) => '/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/'+file,
    }).then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

As with all npm packages, there's a freely available CDN via unpkg.com:

    <script src="https://unpkg.com/canvaskit-wasm@0.18.1/bin/canvaskit.js"></script>
    CanvasKitInit({
         locateFile: (file) => 'https://unpkg.com/canvaskit-wasm@0.18.1/bin/'+file,
    }).then(...)

## Node
To use CanvasKit in Node, it's similar to the browser:

    const CanvasKitInit = require('/node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js');
    CanvasKitInit({
        locateFile: (file) => __dirname + '/bin/'+file,
    }).then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

With node, you also need to supply the `--expose-wasm` flag.

## WebPack

WebPack's support for WASM is still somewhat experimental, but CanvasKit can be
used with a few configuration changes.

In the JS code, use require():

    const CanvasKitInit = require('canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js')
    CanvasKitInit().then((CanvasKit) => {
        // Code goes here using CanvasKit
    });

Since WebPack does not expose the entire `/node_modules/` directory, but instead
packages only the needed pieces, we have to copy canvaskit.wasm into the build directory.
One such solution is to use [CopyWebpackPlugin](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/copy-webpack-plugin).
For example, add the following plugin:

    config.plugins.push(
        new CopyWebpackPlugin([
            { from: 'node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.wasm' }
        ])
    );

If webpack gives an error similar to:

    ERROR in ./node_modules/canvaskit-wasm/bin/canvaskit.js
    Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'fs' in '...'

Then, add the following configuration change to the node section of the config:

    config.node = {
        fs: 'empty'
    };


# Using the CanvasKit API

See `example.html` and `node.example.js` for demos of how to use the core API.

See `extra.html` for some optional add-ins like an animation player (Skottie)
and a particles system.

See `types/index.d.ts` for a typescript definition file that contains all the
APIs and some documentation about them.

## Drop-in Canvas2D replacement
For environments where an HTML canvas is not available (e.g. Node, headless servers),
CanvasKit has an optional API (included by default) that mostly mirrors the HTML canvas.

    let skcanvas = CanvasKit.MakeCanvas(600, 600);

    let ctx = skcanvas.getContext('2d');
    let rgradient = ctx.createRadialGradient(200, 300, 10, 100, 100, 300);

    // Add three color stops
    rgradient.addColorStop(0, 'red');
    rgradient.addColorStop(0.7, 'white');
    rgradient.addColorStop(1, 'blue');

    ctx.fillStyle = rgradient;
    ctx.globalAlpha = 0.7;
    ctx.fillRect(0, 0, 600, 600);

    let imgData = skcanvas.toDataURL();
    // imgData is now a base64 encoded image.

See more examples in `example.html` and `node.example.js`.

### Known issues with Canvas2D Emulation layer
 - measureText returns width only and does no shaping. It is only sort of valid with ASCII letters.
 - textAlign is not supported.
 - textBaseAlign is not supported.
 - fillText does not support the width parameter.

# Filing bugs

Please file bugs at [skbug.com](skbug.com).
It may be convenient to use [our online fiddle](jsfiddle.skia.org/canvaskit) to demonstrate any issues encountered.

See CONTRIBUTING.md for more information on sending pull requests.

# Types and Documentation

There are Typescript types and associated API docs in types/.
