site/docs/dev/testing/fuzz.md, before:

---
title: 'Fuzzing'
linkTitle: 'Fuzzing'
---

## Reproducing using `fuzz`

We assume that you can [build Skia](/docs/user/build). Many fuzzes only
reproduce when building with ASAN or MSAN; see
[those instructions for more details](../xsan).

When building, you should add the following args to BUILD.gn to make reproducing
less machine- and platform- dependent:

    skia_use_fontconfig=false
    skia_use_freetype=true
    skia_use_system_freetype2=false
    skia_use_wuffs=true
    skia_enable_skottie=true
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_directory=false
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_embedded=false
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_empty=true

All that is needed to reproduce a fuzz downloaded from ClusterFuzz or oss-fuzz
is to run something like:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase

The fuzz binary will try its best to guess what the type/name should be based on
the name of the testcase. Manually providing type and name is also supported,
like:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -t filter_fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase
    out/ASAN/fuzz -t api -n RasterN32Canvas -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase

To enumerate all supported types and names, run the following:

    out/ASAN/fuzz --help  # will list all types
    out/ASAN/fuzz -t api  # will list all names

If the crash does not show up, try to add the flag --loops:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase --loops <times-to-run>

## Writing fuzzers with libfuzzer

libfuzzer is an easy way to write new fuzzers, and how we run them on oss-fuzz.
Your fuzzer entry point should implement this API:

    extern "C" int LLVMFuzzerTestOneInput(const uint8_t*, size_t);

First install Clang and libfuzzer, e.g.

    sudo apt install clang-10 libc++-10-dev libfuzzer-10-dev

You should now be able to use `-fsanitize=fuzzer` with Clang.

Set up GN args to use libfuzzer:

    cc = "clang-10"
    cxx = "clang++-10"
    sanitize = "fuzzer"
    extra_cflags = [ "-O1" ]  # Or whatever you want.
    ...

Build Skia and your fuzzer entry point:

    ninja -C out/libfuzzer skia
    clang++-10 -I. -O1 -fsanitize=fuzzer fuzz/oss_fuzz/whatever.cpp out/libfuzzer/libskia.a

Run your new fuzzer binary

    ./a.out

## Fuzzing Defines

There are some defines that can help guide a fuzzer to be more productive (e.g.
avoid OOMs, avoid unnecessarily slow code).

    // Required for fuzzing with afl-fuzz to prevent OOMs from adding noise.
    SK_BUILD_FOR_AFL_FUZZ

    // Required for fuzzing with libfuzzer
    SK_BUILD_FOR_LIBFUZZER

    // This define adds in guards to abort when we think some code path will take a long time or
    // use a lot of RAM. It is set by default when either of the above defines are set.
    SK_BUILD_FOR_FUZZER

Commit message:

[fuzz] Require explicit SK_BUILD_FOR_*FUZZER
The existing define wasn't being used to compile :skia
(but it is for building the fuzzer code).

After this lands, oss-fuzz will be updated to set that
flag too. https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz/pull/6462

The change to SkTypes.h is to remove bit-rotted code that
prevents oss-fuzz from working.

Change-Id: I95b48d76dd3878d04ba3a5d021359ca200c20a0c
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/skia/+/449576
Reviewed-by: Michael Ludwig <michaelludwig@google.com>

site/docs/dev/testing/fuzz.md, after:

---
title: 'Fuzzing'
linkTitle: 'Fuzzing'
---

## Reproducing using `fuzz`

We assume that you can [build Skia](/docs/user/build). Many fuzzes only
reproduce when building with ASAN or MSAN; see
[those instructions for more details](../xsan).

When building, you should add the following args to BUILD.gn to make reproducing
less machine- and platform- dependent:

    skia_use_fontconfig=false
    skia_use_freetype=true
    skia_use_system_freetype2=false
    skia_use_wuffs=true
    skia_enable_skottie=true
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_directory=false
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_embedded=false
    skia_enable_fontmgr_custom_empty=true

All that is needed to reproduce a fuzz downloaded from ClusterFuzz or oss-fuzz
is to run something like:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase

The fuzz binary will try its best to guess what the type/name should be based on
the name of the testcase. Manually providing type and name is also supported,
like:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -t filter_fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase
    out/ASAN/fuzz -t api -n RasterN32Canvas -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase

To enumerate all supported types and names, run the following:

    out/ASAN/fuzz --help  # will list all types
    out/ASAN/fuzz -t api  # will list all names

If the crash does not show up, try to add the flag --loops:

    out/ASAN/fuzz -b /path/to/downloaded/testcase --loops <times-to-run>

## Writing fuzzers with libfuzzer

libfuzzer is an easy way to write new fuzzers, and how we run them on oss-fuzz.
Your fuzzer entry point should implement this API:

    extern "C" int LLVMFuzzerTestOneInput(const uint8_t*, size_t);

First install Clang and libfuzzer, e.g.

    sudo apt install clang-10 libc++-10-dev libfuzzer-10-dev

You should now be able to use `-fsanitize=fuzzer` with Clang.

Set up GN args to use libfuzzer:

    cc = "clang-10"
    cxx = "clang++-10"
    sanitize = "fuzzer"
    extra_cflags = [ "-DSK_BUILD_FOR_LIBFUZZER", # enables fuzzer-constraints (see below)
                     "-O1"  # Or whatever you want.
                   ]
    ...

Build Skia and your fuzzer entry point:

    ninja -C out/libfuzzer skia
    clang++-10 -I. -O1 -fsanitize=fuzzer fuzz/oss_fuzz/whatever.cpp out/libfuzzer/libskia.a

Run your new fuzzer binary

    ./a.out

## Fuzzing Defines

There are some defines that can help guide a fuzzer to be more productive (e.g.
avoid OOMs, avoid unnecessarily slow code).

    // Required for fuzzing with afl-fuzz to prevent OOMs from adding noise.
    SK_BUILD_FOR_AFL_FUZZ

    // Required for fuzzing with libfuzzer
    SK_BUILD_FOR_LIBFUZZER

    // This define adds in guards to abort when we think some code path will take a long time or
    // use a lot of RAM. It is set by default when either of the above defines are set.
    SK_BUILD_FOR_FUZZER
